README.md, before:

# 🍿 `snacks.nvim`

A collection of small QoL plugins for Neovim.

## ✨ Features

<!-- toc:start -->

| Snack | Description | Setup |
| ----- | ----------- | :---: |
| [animate](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/animate.md) | Efficient animations including over 45 easing functions _(library)_ |  |
| [bigfile](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/bigfile.md) | Deal with big files | ‼️ |
| [bufdelete](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/bufdelete.md) | Delete buffers without disrupting window layout |  |
| [dashboard](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/dashboard.md) |  Beautiful declarative dashboards | ‼️ |
| [debug](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/debug.md) | Pretty inspect & backtraces for debugging |  |
| [dim](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/dim.md) | Focus on the active scope by dimming the rest |  |
| [explorer](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/explorer.md) | A file explorer (picker in disguise) | ‼️ |
| [git](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/git.md) | Git utilities |  |
| [gitbrowse](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/gitbrowse.md) | Open the current file, branch, commit, or repo in a browser (e.g. GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) |  |
| [image](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/image.md) | Image viewer using Kitty Graphics Protocol, supported by `kitty`, `wezterm` and `ghostty` | ‼️ |
| [indent](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/indent.md) | Indent guides and scopes |  |
| [input](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/input.md) | Better `vim.ui.input` | ‼️ |
| [layout](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/layout.md) | Window layouts |  |
| [lazygit](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/lazygit.md) | Open LazyGit in a float, auto-configure colorscheme and integration with Neovim |  |
| [notifier](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/notifier.md) | Pretty `vim.notify` | ‼️ |
| [notify](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/notify.md) | Utility functions to work with Neovim's `vim.notify` |  |
| [picker](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/picker.md) | Picker for selecting items | ‼️ |
| [profiler](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/profiler.md) | Neovim lua profiler |  |
| [quickfile](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/quickfile.md) | When doing `nvim somefile.txt`, it will render the file as quickly as possible, before loading your plugins. | ‼️ |
| [rename](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/rename.md) | LSP-integrated file renaming with support for plugins like [neo-tree.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim) and [mini.files](https://github.com/nvim-mini/mini.files). |  |
| [scope](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/scope.md) | Scope detection, text objects and jumping based on treesitter or indent | ‼️ |
| [scratch](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/scratch.md) | Scratch buffers with a persistent file |  |
| [scroll](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/scroll.md) | Smooth scrolling | ‼️ |
| [statuscolumn](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/statuscolumn.md) | Pretty status column | ‼️ |
| [terminal](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/terminal.md) | Create and toggle floating/split terminals |  |
| [toggle](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/toggle.md) | Toggle keymaps integrated with which-key icons / colors |  |
| [util](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/util.md) | Utility functions for Snacks _(library)_ |  |
| [win](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/win.md) | Create and manage floating windows or splits |  |
| [words](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/words.md) | Auto-show LSP references and quickly navigate between them | ‼️ |
| [zen](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/zen.md) | Zen mode • distraction-free coding |  |

<!-- toc:end -->

## ⚡️ Requirements

- **Neovim** >= 0.9.4
- for proper icons support:
  - [mini.icons](https://github.com/nvim-mini/mini.icons) _(optional)_
  - [nvim-web-devicons](https://github.com/nvim-tree/nvim-web-devicons) _(optional)_
  - a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) **_(optional)_**

## 📦 Installation

Install the plugin with your package manager:

### [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)

> [!important]
> A couple of plugins **require** `snacks.nvim` to be set-up early.
> Setup creates some autocmds and does not load any plugins.
> Check the [code](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/lua/snacks/init.lua) to see what it does.

> [!caution]
> You need to explicitly pass options for a plugin or set `enabled = true` to enable it.

> [!tip]
> It's a good idea to run `:checkhealth snacks` to see if everything is set up correctly.

```lua
{
  "folke/snacks.nvim",
  priority = 1000,
  lazy = false,
  ---@type snacks.Config
  opts = {
    -- your configuration comes here
    -- or leave it empty to use the default settings
    -- refer to the configuration section below
    bigfile = { enabled = true },
    dashboard = { enabled = true },
    explorer = { enabled = true },
    indent = { enabled = true },
    input = { enabled = true },
    picker = { enabled = true },
    notifier = { enabled = true },
    quickfile = { enabled = true },
    scope = { enabled = true },
    scroll = { enabled = true },
    statuscolumn = { enabled = true },
    words = { enabled = true },
  },
}
```

For an in-depth setup of `snacks.nvim` with `lazy.nvim`, check the [example](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim?tab=readme-ov-file#-usage) below.

## ⚙️ Configuration

Please refer to the readme of each plugin for their specific configuration.

<details><summary>Default Options</summary>

<!-- config:start -->

```lua
---@class snacks.Config
---@field animate? snacks.animate.Config
---@field bigfile? snacks.bigfile.Config
---@field dashboard? snacks.dashboard.Config
---@field dim? snacks.dim.Config
---@field explorer? snacks.explorer.Config
---@field gitbrowse? snacks.gitbrowse.Config
---@field image? snacks.image.Config
---@field indent? snacks.indent.Config
---@field input? snacks.input.Config
---@field layout? snacks.layout.Config
---@field lazygit? snacks.lazygit.Config
---@field notifier? snacks.notifier.Config
---@field picker? snacks.picker.Config
---@field profiler? snacks.profiler.Config
---@field quickfile? snacks.quickfile.Config
---@field scope? snacks.scope.Config
---@field scratch? snacks.scratch.Config
---@field scroll? snacks.scroll.Config
---@field statuscolumn? snacks.statuscolumn.Config
---@field terminal? snacks.terminal.Config
---@field toggle? snacks.toggle.Config
---@field win? snacks.win.Config
---@field words? snacks.words.Config
---@field zen? snacks.zen.Config
---@field styles? table<string, snacks.win.Config>
---@field image? snacks.image.Config|{}
{
  image = {
    -- define these here, so that we don't need to load the image module
    formats = {
      "png",
      "jpg",
      "jpeg",
      "gif",
      "bmp",
      "webp",
      "tiff",
      "heic",
      "avif",
      "mp4",
      "mov",
      "avi",
      "mkv",
      "webm",
      "pdf",
      "icns",
    },
  },
}
```

<!-- config:end -->

</details>

Some plugins have examples in their documentation. You can include them in your
config like this:

```lua
{
  dashboard = { example = "github" }
}
```

If you want to customize options for a plugin after they have been resolved, you
can use the `config` function:

```lua
{
  gitbrowse = {
    config = function(opts, defaults)
      table.insert(opts.remote_patterns, { "my", "custom pattern" })
    end
  },
}
```

## 🚀 Usage

See the example below for how to configure `snacks.nvim`.

<!-- example:start -->

```lua
{
  "folke/snacks.nvim",
  priority = 1000,
  lazy = false,
  ---@type snacks.Config
  opts = {
    bigfile = { enabled = true },
    dashboard = { enabled = true },
    explorer = { enabled = true },
    indent = { enabled = true },
    input = { enabled = true },
    notifier = {
      enabled = true,
      timeout = 3000,
    },
    picker = { enabled = true },
    quickfile = { enabled = true },
    scope = { enabled = true },
    scroll = { enabled = true },
    statuscolumn = { enabled = true },
    words = { enabled = true },
    styles = {
      notification = {
        -- wo = { wrap = true } -- Wrap notifications
      }
    }
  },
  keys = {
    -- Top Pickers & Explorer
    { "<leader><space>", function() Snacks.picker.smart() end, desc = "Smart Find Files" },
    { "<leader>,", function() Snacks.picker.buffers() end, desc = "Buffers" },
    { "<leader>/", function() Snacks.picker.grep() end, desc = "Grep" },
    { "<leader>:", function() Snacks.picker.command_history() end, desc = "Command History" },
    { "<leader>n", function() Snacks.picker.notifications() end, desc = "Notification History" },
    { "<leader>e", function() Snacks.explorer() end, desc = "File Explorer" },
    -- find
    { "<leader>fb", function() Snacks.picker.buffers() end, desc = "Buffers" },
    { "<leader>fc", function() Snacks.picker.files({ cwd = vim.fn.stdpath("config") }) end, desc = "Find Config File" },
    { "<leader>ff", function() Snacks.picker.files() end, desc = "Find Files" },
    { "<leader>fg", function() Snacks.picker.git_files() end, desc = "Find Git Files" },
    { "<leader>fp", function() Snacks.picker.projects() end, desc = "Projects" },
    { "<leader>fr", function() Snacks.picker.recent() end, desc = "Recent" },
    -- git
    { "<leader>gb", function() Snacks.picker.git_branches() end, desc = "Git Branches" },
    { "<leader>gl", function() Snacks.picker.git_log() end, desc = "Git Log" },
    { "<leader>gL", function() Snacks.picker.git_log_line() end, desc = "Git Log Line" },
    { "<leader>gs", function() Snacks.picker.git_status() end, desc = "Git Status" },
    { "<leader>gS", function() Snacks.picker.git_stash() end, desc = "Git Stash" },
    { "<leader>gd", function() Snacks.picker.git_diff() end, desc = "Git Diff (Hunks)" },
    { "<leader>gf", function() Snacks.picker.git_log_file() end, desc = "Git Log File" },
    -- Grep
    { "<leader>sb", function() Snacks.picker.lines() end, desc = "Buffer Lines" },
    { "<leader>sB", function() Snacks.picker.grep_buffers() end, desc = "Grep Open Buffers" },
    { "<leader>sg", function() Snacks.picker.grep() end, desc = "Grep" },
    { "<leader>sw", function() Snacks.picker.grep_word() end, desc = "Visual selection or word", mode = { "n", "x" } },
    -- search
    { '<leader>s"', function() Snacks.picker.registers() end, desc = "Registers" },
    { '<leader>s/', function() Snacks.picker.search_history() end, desc = "Search History" },
    { "<leader>sa", function() Snacks.picker.autocmds() end, desc = "Autocmds" },
    { "<leader>sb", function() Snacks.picker.lines() end, desc = "Buffer Lines" },
    { "<leader>sc", function() Snacks.picker.command_history() end, desc = "Command History" },
    { "<leader>sC", function() Snacks.picker.commands() end, desc = "Commands" },
    { "<leader>sd", function() Snacks.picker.diagnostics() end, desc = "Diagnostics" },
    { "<leader>sD", function() Snacks.picker.diagnostics_buffer() end, desc = "Buffer Diagnostics" },
    { "<leader>sh", function() Snacks.picker.help() end, desc = "Help Pages" },
    { "<leader>sH", function() Snacks.picker.highlights() end, desc = "Highlights" },
    { "<leader>si", function() Snacks.picker.icons() end, desc = "Icons" },
    { "<leader>sj", function() Snacks.picker.jumps() end, desc = "Jumps" },
    { "<leader>sk", function() Snacks.picker.keymaps() end, desc = "Keymaps" },
    { "<leader>sl", function() Snacks.picker.loclist() end, desc = "Location List" },
    { "<leader>sm", function() Snacks.picker.marks() end, desc = "Marks" },
    { "<leader>sM", function() Snacks.picker.man() end, desc = "Man Pages" },
    { "<leader>sp", function() Snacks.picker.lazy() end, desc = "Search for Plugin Spec" },
    { "<leader>sq", function() Snacks.picker.qflist() end, desc = "Quickfix List" },
    { "<leader>sR", function() Snacks.picker.resume() end, desc = "Resume" },
    { "<leader>su", function() Snacks.picker.undo() end, desc = "Undo History" },
    { "<leader>uC", function() Snacks.picker.colorschemes() end, desc = "Colorschemes" },
    -- LSP
    { "gd", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_definitions() end, desc = "Goto Definition" },
    { "gD", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_declarations() end, desc = "Goto Declaration" },
    { "gr", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_references() end, nowait = true, desc = "References" },
    { "gI", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_implementations() end, desc = "Goto Implementation" },
    { "gy", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_type_definitions() end, desc = "Goto T[y]pe Definition" },
    { "gai", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_incoming_calls() end, desc = "C[a]lls Incoming" },
    { "gao", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_outgoing_calls() end, desc = "C[a]lls Outgoing" },
    { "<leader>ss", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_symbols() end, desc = "LSP Symbols" },
    { "<leader>sS", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_workspace_symbols() end, desc = "LSP Workspace Symbols" },
    -- Other
    { "<leader>z",  function() Snacks.zen() end, desc = "Toggle Zen Mode" },
    { "<leader>Z",  function() Snacks.zen.zoom() end, desc = "Toggle Zoom" },
    { "<leader>.",  function() Snacks.scratch() end, desc = "Toggle Scratch Buffer" },
    { "<leader>S",  function() Snacks.scratch.select() end, desc = "Select Scratch Buffer" },
    { "<leader>n",  function() Snacks.notifier.show_history() end, desc = "Notification History" },
    { "<leader>bd", function() Snacks.bufdelete() end, desc = "Delete Buffer" },
    { "<leader>cR", function() Snacks.rename.rename_file() end, desc = "Rename File" },
    { "<leader>gB", function() Snacks.gitbrowse() end, desc = "Git Browse", mode = { "n", "v" } },
    { "<leader>gg", function() Snacks.lazygit() end, desc = "Lazygit" },
    { "<leader>un", function() Snacks.notifier.hide() end, desc = "Dismiss All Notifications" },
    { "<c-/>",      function() Snacks.terminal() end, desc = "Toggle Terminal" },
    { "<c-_>",      function() Snacks.terminal() end, desc = "which_key_ignore" },
    { "]]",         function() Snacks.words.jump(vim.v.count1) end, desc = "Next Reference", mode = { "n", "t" } },
    { "[[",         function() Snacks.words.jump(-vim.v.count1) end, desc = "Prev Reference", mode = { "n", "t" } },
    {
      "<leader>N",
      desc = "Neovim News",
      function()
        Snacks.win({
          file = vim.api.nvim_get_runtime_file("doc/news.txt", false)[1],
          width = 0.6,
          height = 0.6,
          wo = {
            spell = false,
            wrap = false,
            signcolumn = "yes",
            statuscolumn = " ",
            conceallevel = 3,
          },
        })
      end,
    }
  },
  init = function()
    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd("User", {
      pattern = "VeryLazy",
      callback = function()
        -- Setup some globals for debugging (lazy-loaded)
        _G.dd = function(...)
          Snacks.debug.inspect(...)
        end
        _G.bt = function()
          Snacks.debug.backtrace()
        end

        -- Override print to use snacks for `:=` command
        if vim.fn.has("nvim-0.11") == 1 then
          vim._print = function(_, ...)
            dd(...)
          end
        else
          vim.print = _G.dd 
        end

        -- Create some toggle mappings
        Snacks.toggle.option("spell", { name = "Spelling" }):map("<leader>us")
        Snacks.toggle.option("wrap", { name = "Wrap" }):map("<leader>uw")
        Snacks.toggle.option("relativenumber", { name = "Relative Number" }):map("<leader>uL")
        Snacks.toggle.diagnostics():map("<leader>ud")
        Snacks.toggle.line_number():map("<leader>ul")
        Snacks.toggle.option("conceallevel", { off = 0, on = vim.o.conceallevel > 0 and vim.o.conceallevel or 2 }):map("<leader>uc")
        Snacks.toggle.treesitter():map("<leader>uT")
        Snacks.toggle.option("background", { off = "light", on = "dark", name = "Dark Background" }):map("<leader>ub")
        Snacks.toggle.inlay_hints():map("<leader>uh")
        Snacks.toggle.indent():map("<leader>ug")
        Snacks.toggle.dim():map("<leader>uD")
      end,
    })
  end,
}
```

<!-- example:end -->

## 🌈 Highlight Groups

Snacks defines **a lot** of highlight groups and it's impossible to document them all.

Instead, you can use the picker to see all the highlight groups.

```lua
Snacks.picker.highlights({pattern = "hl_group:^Snacks"})
```

Commit message:

docs(keymap): added docs about `Snacks.keymap`.

README.md, after:

# 🍿 `snacks.nvim`

A collection of small QoL plugins for Neovim.

## ✨ Features

<!-- toc:start -->

| Snack | Description | Setup |
| ----- | ----------- | :---: |
| [animate](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/animate.md) | Efficient animations including over 45 easing functions _(library)_ |  |
| [bigfile](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/bigfile.md) | Deal with big files | ‼️ |
| [bufdelete](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/bufdelete.md) | Delete buffers without disrupting window layout |  |
| [dashboard](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/dashboard.md) |  Beautiful declarative dashboards | ‼️ |
| [debug](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/debug.md) | Pretty inspect & backtraces for debugging |  |
| [dim](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/dim.md) | Focus on the active scope by dimming the rest |  |
| [explorer](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/explorer.md) | A file explorer (picker in disguise) | ‼️ |
| [git](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/git.md) | Git utilities |  |
| [gitbrowse](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/gitbrowse.md) | Open the current file, branch, commit, or repo in a browser (e.g. GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) |  |
| [image](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/image.md) | Image viewer using Kitty Graphics Protocol, supported by `kitty`, `wezterm` and `ghostty` | ‼️ |
| [indent](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/indent.md) | Indent guides and scopes |  |
| [input](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/input.md) | Better `vim.ui.input` | ‼️ |
| [keymap](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/keymap.md) | Better `vim.keymap` with support for filetypes and LSP clients |  |
| [layout](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/layout.md) | Window layouts |  |
| [lazygit](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/lazygit.md) | Open LazyGit in a float, auto-configure colorscheme and integration with Neovim |  |
| [notifier](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/notifier.md) | Pretty `vim.notify` | ‼️ |
| [notify](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/notify.md) | Utility functions to work with Neovim's `vim.notify` |  |
| [picker](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/picker.md) | Picker for selecting items | ‼️ |
| [profiler](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/profiler.md) | Neovim lua profiler |  |
| [quickfile](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/quickfile.md) | When doing `nvim somefile.txt`, it will render the file as quickly as possible, before loading your plugins. | ‼️ |
| [rename](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/rename.md) | LSP-integrated file renaming with support for plugins like [neo-tree.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim) and [mini.files](https://github.com/nvim-mini/mini.files). |  |
| [scope](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/scope.md) | Scope detection, text objects and jumping based on treesitter or indent | ‼️ |
| [scratch](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/scratch.md) | Scratch buffers with a persistent file |  |
| [scroll](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/scroll.md) | Smooth scrolling | ‼️ |
| [statuscolumn](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/statuscolumn.md) | Pretty status column | ‼️ |
| [terminal](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/terminal.md) | Create and toggle floating/split terminals |  |
| [toggle](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/toggle.md) | Toggle keymaps integrated with which-key icons / colors |  |
| [util](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/util.md) | Utility functions for Snacks _(library)_ |  |
| [win](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/win.md) | Create and manage floating windows or splits |  |
| [words](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/words.md) | Auto-show LSP references and quickly navigate between them | ‼️ |
| [zen](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/docs/zen.md) | Zen mode • distraction-free coding |  |

<!-- toc:end -->

## ⚡️ Requirements

- **Neovim** >= 0.9.4
- for proper icons support:
  - [mini.icons](https://github.com/nvim-mini/mini.icons) _(optional)_
  - [nvim-web-devicons](https://github.com/nvim-tree/nvim-web-devicons) _(optional)_
  - a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) **_(optional)_**

## 📦 Installation

Install the plugin with your package manager:

### [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)

> [!important]
> A couple of plugins **require** `snacks.nvim` to be set-up early.
> Setup creates some autocmds and does not load any plugins.
> Check the [code](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim/blob/main/lua/snacks/init.lua) to see what it does.

> [!caution]
> You need to explicitly pass options for a plugin or set `enabled = true` to enable it.

> [!tip]
> It's a good idea to run `:checkhealth snacks` to see if everything is set up correctly.

```lua
{
  "folke/snacks.nvim",
  priority = 1000,
  lazy = false,
  ---@type snacks.Config
  opts = {
    -- your configuration comes here
    -- or leave it empty to use the default settings
    -- refer to the configuration section below
    bigfile = { enabled = true },
    dashboard = { enabled = true },
    explorer = { enabled = true },
    indent = { enabled = true },
    input = { enabled = true },
    picker = { enabled = true },
    notifier = { enabled = true },
    quickfile = { enabled = true },
    scope = { enabled = true },
    scroll = { enabled = true },
    statuscolumn = { enabled = true },
    words = { enabled = true },
  },
}
```

For an in-depth setup of `snacks.nvim` with `lazy.nvim`, check the [example](https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim?tab=readme-ov-file#-usage) below.

## ⚙️ Configuration

Please refer to the readme of each plugin for their specific configuration.

<details><summary>Default Options</summary>

<!-- config:start -->

```lua
---@class snacks.Config
---@field animate? snacks.animate.Config
---@field bigfile? snacks.bigfile.Config
---@field dashboard? snacks.dashboard.Config
---@field dim? snacks.dim.Config
---@field explorer? snacks.explorer.Config
---@field gitbrowse? snacks.gitbrowse.Config
---@field image? snacks.image.Config
---@field indent? snacks.indent.Config
---@field input? snacks.input.Config
---@field layout? snacks.layout.Config
---@field lazygit? snacks.lazygit.Config
---@field notifier? snacks.notifier.Config
---@field picker? snacks.picker.Config
---@field profiler? snacks.profiler.Config
---@field quickfile? snacks.quickfile.Config
---@field scope? snacks.scope.Config
---@field scratch? snacks.scratch.Config
---@field scroll? snacks.scroll.Config
---@field statuscolumn? snacks.statuscolumn.Config
---@field terminal? snacks.terminal.Config
---@field toggle? snacks.toggle.Config
---@field win? snacks.win.Config
---@field words? snacks.words.Config
---@field zen? snacks.zen.Config
---@field styles? table<string, snacks.win.Config>
---@field image? snacks.image.Config|{}
{
  image = {
    -- define these here, so that we don't need to load the image module
    formats = {
      "png",
      "jpg",
      "jpeg",
      "gif",
      "bmp",
      "webp",
      "tiff",
      "heic",
      "avif",
      "mp4",
      "mov",
      "avi",
      "mkv",
      "webm",
      "pdf",
      "icns",
    },
  },
}
```

<!-- config:end -->

</details>

Some plugins have examples in their documentation. You can include them in your
config like this:

```lua
{
  dashboard = { example = "github" }
}
```

If you want to customize options for a plugin after they have been resolved, you
can use the `config` function:

```lua
{
  gitbrowse = {
    config = function(opts, defaults)
      table.insert(opts.remote_patterns, { "my", "custom pattern" })
    end
  },
}
```

## 🚀 Usage

See the example below for how to configure `snacks.nvim`.

<!-- example:start -->

```lua
{
  "folke/snacks.nvim",
  priority = 1000,
  lazy = false,
  ---@type snacks.Config
  opts = {
    bigfile = { enabled = true },
    dashboard = { enabled = true },
    explorer = { enabled = true },
    indent = { enabled = true },
    input = { enabled = true },
    notifier = {
      enabled = true,
      timeout = 3000,
    },
    picker = { enabled = true },
    quickfile = { enabled = true },
    scope = { enabled = true },
    scroll = { enabled = true },
    statuscolumn = { enabled = true },
    words = { enabled = true },
    styles = {
      notification = {
        -- wo = { wrap = true } -- Wrap notifications
      }
    }
  },
  keys = {
    -- Top Pickers & Explorer
    { "<leader><space>", function() Snacks.picker.smart() end, desc = "Smart Find Files" },
    { "<leader>,", function() Snacks.picker.buffers() end, desc = "Buffers" },
    { "<leader>/", function() Snacks.picker.grep() end, desc = "Grep" },
    { "<leader>:", function() Snacks.picker.command_history() end, desc = "Command History" },
    { "<leader>n", function() Snacks.picker.notifications() end, desc = "Notification History" },
    { "<leader>e", function() Snacks.explorer() end, desc = "File Explorer" },
    -- find
    { "<leader>fb", function() Snacks.picker.buffers() end, desc = "Buffers" },
    { "<leader>fc", function() Snacks.picker.files({ cwd = vim.fn.stdpath("config") }) end, desc = "Find Config File" },
    { "<leader>ff", function() Snacks.picker.files() end, desc = "Find Files" },
    { "<leader>fg", function() Snacks.picker.git_files() end, desc = "Find Git Files" },
    { "<leader>fp", function() Snacks.picker.projects() end, desc = "Projects" },
    { "<leader>fr", function() Snacks.picker.recent() end, desc = "Recent" },
    -- git
    { "<leader>gb", function() Snacks.picker.git_branches() end, desc = "Git Branches" },
    { "<leader>gl", function() Snacks.picker.git_log() end, desc = "Git Log" },
    { "<leader>gL", function() Snacks.picker.git_log_line() end, desc = "Git Log Line" },
    { "<leader>gs", function() Snacks.picker.git_status() end, desc = "Git Status" },
    { "<leader>gS", function() Snacks.picker.git_stash() end, desc = "Git Stash" },
    { "<leader>gd", function() Snacks.picker.git_diff() end, desc = "Git Diff (Hunks)" },
    { "<leader>gf", function() Snacks.picker.git_log_file() end, desc = "Git Log File" },
    -- Grep
    { "<leader>sb", function() Snacks.picker.lines() end, desc = "Buffer Lines" },
    { "<leader>sB", function() Snacks.picker.grep_buffers() end, desc = "Grep Open Buffers" },
    { "<leader>sg", function() Snacks.picker.grep() end, desc = "Grep" },
    { "<leader>sw", function() Snacks.picker.grep_word() end, desc = "Visual selection or word", mode = { "n", "x" } },
    -- search
    { '<leader>s"', function() Snacks.picker.registers() end, desc = "Registers" },
    { '<leader>s/', function() Snacks.picker.search_history() end, desc = "Search History" },
    { "<leader>sa", function() Snacks.picker.autocmds() end, desc = "Autocmds" },
    { "<leader>sb", function() Snacks.picker.lines() end, desc = "Buffer Lines" },
    { "<leader>sc", function() Snacks.picker.command_history() end, desc = "Command History" },
    { "<leader>sC", function() Snacks.picker.commands() end, desc = "Commands" },
    { "<leader>sd", function() Snacks.picker.diagnostics() end, desc = "Diagnostics" },
    { "<leader>sD", function() Snacks.picker.diagnostics_buffer() end, desc = "Buffer Diagnostics" },
    { "<leader>sh", function() Snacks.picker.help() end, desc = "Help Pages" },
    { "<leader>sH", function() Snacks.picker.highlights() end, desc = "Highlights" },
    { "<leader>si", function() Snacks.picker.icons() end, desc = "Icons" },
    { "<leader>sj", function() Snacks.picker.jumps() end, desc = "Jumps" },
    { "<leader>sk", function() Snacks.picker.keymaps() end, desc = "Keymaps" },
    { "<leader>sl", function() Snacks.picker.loclist() end, desc = "Location List" },
    { "<leader>sm", function() Snacks.picker.marks() end, desc = "Marks" },
    { "<leader>sM", function() Snacks.picker.man() end, desc = "Man Pages" },
    { "<leader>sp", function() Snacks.picker.lazy() end, desc = "Search for Plugin Spec" },
    { "<leader>sq", function() Snacks.picker.qflist() end, desc = "Quickfix List" },
    { "<leader>sR", function() Snacks.picker.resume() end, desc = "Resume" },
    { "<leader>su", function() Snacks.picker.undo() end, desc = "Undo History" },
    { "<leader>uC", function() Snacks.picker.colorschemes() end, desc = "Colorschemes" },
    -- LSP
    { "gd", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_definitions() end, desc = "Goto Definition" },
    { "gD", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_declarations() end, desc = "Goto Declaration" },
    { "gr", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_references() end, nowait = true, desc = "References" },
    { "gI", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_implementations() end, desc = "Goto Implementation" },
    { "gy", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_type_definitions() end, desc = "Goto T[y]pe Definition" },
    { "gai", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_incoming_calls() end, desc = "C[a]lls Incoming" },
    { "gao", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_outgoing_calls() end, desc = "C[a]lls Outgoing" },
    { "<leader>ss", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_symbols() end, desc = "LSP Symbols" },
    { "<leader>sS", function() Snacks.picker.lsp_workspace_symbols() end, desc = "LSP Workspace Symbols" },
    -- Other
    { "<leader>z",  function() Snacks.zen() end, desc = "Toggle Zen Mode" },
    { "<leader>Z",  function() Snacks.zen.zoom() end, desc = "Toggle Zoom" },
    { "<leader>.",  function() Snacks.scratch() end, desc = "Toggle Scratch Buffer" },
    { "<leader>S",  function() Snacks.scratch.select() end, desc = "Select Scratch Buffer" },
    { "<leader>n",  function() Snacks.notifier.show_history() end, desc = "Notification History" },
    { "<leader>bd", function() Snacks.bufdelete() end, desc = "Delete Buffer" },
    { "<leader>cR", function() Snacks.rename.rename_file() end, desc = "Rename File" },
    { "<leader>gB", function() Snacks.gitbrowse() end, desc = "Git Browse", mode = { "n", "v" } },
    { "<leader>gg", function() Snacks.lazygit() end, desc = "Lazygit" },
    { "<leader>un", function() Snacks.notifier.hide() end, desc = "Dismiss All Notifications" },
    { "<c-/>",      function() Snacks.terminal() end, desc = "Toggle Terminal" },
    { "<c-_>",      function() Snacks.terminal() end, desc = "which_key_ignore" },
    { "]]",         function() Snacks.words.jump(vim.v.count1) end, desc = "Next Reference", mode = { "n", "t" } },
    { "[[",         function() Snacks.words.jump(-vim.v.count1) end, desc = "Prev Reference", mode = { "n", "t" } },
    {
      "<leader>N",
      desc = "Neovim News",
      function()
        Snacks.win({
          file = vim.api.nvim_get_runtime_file("doc/news.txt", false)[1],
          width = 0.6,
          height = 0.6,
          wo = {
            spell = false,
            wrap = false,
            signcolumn = "yes",
            statuscolumn = " ",
            conceallevel = 3,
          },
        })
      end,
    }
  },
  init = function()
    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd("User", {
      pattern = "VeryLazy",
      callback = function()
        -- Setup some globals for debugging (lazy-loaded)
        _G.dd = function(...)
          Snacks.debug.inspect(...)
        end
        _G.bt = function()
          Snacks.debug.backtrace()
        end

        -- Override print to use snacks for `:=` command
        if vim.fn.has("nvim-0.11") == 1 then
          vim._print = function(_, ...)
            dd(...)
          end
        else
          vim.print = _G.dd 
        end

        -- Create some toggle mappings
        Snacks.toggle.option("spell", { name = "Spelling" }):map("<leader>us")
        Snacks.toggle.option("wrap", { name = "Wrap" }):map("<leader>uw")
        Snacks.toggle.option("relativenumber", { name = "Relative Number" }):map("<leader>uL")
        Snacks.toggle.diagnostics():map("<leader>ud")
        Snacks.toggle.line_number():map("<leader>ul")
        Snacks.toggle.option("conceallevel", { off = 0, on = vim.o.conceallevel > 0 and vim.o.conceallevel or 2 }):map("<leader>uc")
        Snacks.toggle.treesitter():map("<leader>uT")
        Snacks.toggle.option("background", { off = "light", on = "dark", name = "Dark Background" }):map("<leader>ub")
        Snacks.toggle.inlay_hints():map("<leader>uh")
        Snacks.toggle.indent():map("<leader>ug")
        Snacks.toggle.dim():map("<leader>uD")
      end,
    })
  end,
}
```

<!-- example:end -->

## 🌈 Highlight Groups

Snacks defines **a lot** of highlight groups and it's impossible to document them all.

Instead, you can use the picker to see all the highlight groups.

```lua
Snacks.picker.highlights({pattern = "hl_group:^Snacks"})
```
